---
layout: post
title: "Tacos"
date: 2020-12-23 12:00:00 -0500
image: 2020-12-23-tacos.jpg
tags: 
categories: main-course
prep-time: 20 minutes
cook-time: 20 minutes
total-time: 45 minutes
---

Savor the zest and versatility of our Taco recipe, a celebration of Mexican-inspired flavors that promises to elevate your dining experience. Start with your choice of protein like seasoned tofu or black beans. Warm your tortillas and assemble your tacos with a colorful array of toppings, such as shredded lettuce, diced tomatoes, cheese, and a dollop of creamy guacamole or zesty salsa. Add a squeeze of lime for a burst of freshness, and customize with cilantro, jalapeños, or sour cream to suit your taste preferences. These tacos offer a perfect balance of textures and tastes, making them a versatile and crowd-pleasing option for any occasion. Embrace the festive spirit of Mexican cuisine, and enjoy the delectable experience of crafting and savoring your own delicious tacos.

#### Serves 4-6 people

#### Ingredients

|    Ingredients   |   Quantity   |
|:----------------:|:------------:|
|    Taco Shells   |  1 Box of 12 |
|       Salsa      |   As needed  |
| Red Kidney Beans |     1 can    |
|      Onions      |       2      |
|      Tomato      |       4      |
|     Cucumbers    |       1      |
|      Carrots     |       1      |
|      Lettuce     |  Few leaves  |
|    Bellpepper    |     1 red    |
|  Taco Seasoning  | 1 tablespoon |
|        Oil       | 1 tablespoon |
|   Salt / Pepper  |  As required |
|    Lemon Juice   |  As required |

## Directions for the beans

1. Finely dice the onions and tomato. Wash and drain the beans; then mash them.
2. In a pan, warm the oil. Add the onions and once they are transparent, add the tomatoes.
3. Once the tomatoes are cooked, add the mashed red kidney beans. Add the taco seasoning, salt, pepper, and lemon juice

## Directions for the salad

1. Take the vegetables that you want to include and wash / cut them.
2. Mix them and enjoy with salsa. Put the mix in the taco shells which you can cook in the toaster oven.