---
layout: post
title: "Gnocchi"
date: 2020-12-23 19:00:00 -0500
image: 2020-12-23-gnocchi.jpg
tags: 
categories: main-course
prep-time: 15 minutes
cook-time: 20 minutes
total-time: 45 minutes
---

Savor the pillowy perfection of our Gnocchi recipe, a delightful Italian dish that transforms humble potatoes into delicate, doughy dumplings. Begin by boiling and mashing potatoes before combining them with flour to create a soft and pliable dough. Shape the dough into small cylinders, cut them into bite-sized pieces, and then press each one with a fork or gnocchi board to create ridges that will help capture your chosen sauce. Boil the gnocchi until they float to the surface, indicating their readiness. Whether served with a classic tomato sauce, rich brown butter and sage, or a creamy Alfredo, these tender and fluffy dumplings promise a comforting and satisfying culinary experience. Elevate your homemade pasta game with this Gnocchi recipe that reflects the heartwarming essence of Italian comfort food.

#### Serves 4-6 people

#### Ingredients

|      Ingredients      |      Quantity     |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------:|
|        Gnocchi        | 1 16 ounce packet |
|          Oil          |   3 tablespoons   |
|         Onion         |         1         |
|       Bellpepper      |   1 red, 1 green  |
|       Mushrooms       |        5-6        |
|         Squash        |         1         |
|         Carrot        |         1         |
|         Garlic        |     2-3 cloves    |
|      Pasta Sauce      |    As per taste   |
| Salt / Pepper / Basil |    As per taste   |

## Directions

1. Boil some water in a pot. Once the water is boiling add gnocchi. Let it cook for 2-3 minutes until they start to rise and float.
2. Drain the water and keep gnocchi aside.
3. In another pot, warm some oil and add the onion. Once the onions begin to become transparent, add garlic, carrots, and squash.
4. After 2-3 minutes, add the bellpeppers, and mushrooms and let them cook for a little bit.
5. Add pasta sauce and let it simmer for 3-4 minutes. Then add your gnocchi and mix everything. Enjoy.