---
layout: post
title: "Pancakes"
date: 2020-08-08 10:00:00 -0500
image: 2020-08-08-pancakes.jpg
tags: breakfast
categories: breakfast
prep-time: 15 minutes
cook-time:
total-time: 15 minutes
---

Delight in the comfort of homemade pancakes with our classic Pancakes recipe. In a mixing bowl, whisk together all-purpose flour, baking powder, salt, and a bit of sugar. In a separate bowl, add milk and melted butter. Combine the wet and dry ingredients, stirring until just mixed—avoid overmixing for fluffy pancakes. Heat a griddle or skillet over medium heat and ladle the batter onto the hot surface. Cook until bubbles form on the surface, then flip and cook the other side until golden brown. Serve your pancakes with maple syrup, fresh fruits, or a dollop of whipped cream for a delicious and customizable breakfast treat. Enjoy the simplicity and warmth of homemade pancakes that are sure to brighten your morning.

#### Makes 4-6 pancakes

#### Ingredients

|    Ingredients    |    Quantity   |
|:-----------------:|:-------------:|
| Whole Wheat Flour |     1 cup     |
|        Milk       |     1 cup     |
|   Baking Powder   |  1 tablespoon |
|  Vanilla Extract  |   1 teaspoon  |
|        Salt       |  0.5 teaspoon |
|      Cinnamon     |  0.5 teaspoon |
|       Honey       |    To taste   |
|  Chocolate Chips  |    To taste   |
|       Butter      | 2 tablespoons |
|        Oil        |  1 tablespoon |
|       Water       |   As needed   |

## Directions

1. Mix together whole wheat flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon in a bowl.
2. Blend together milk, vanilla, honey and oil.
3. Pour the milk mixture slowly in the dry ingredients (step 1) and whisk together until combined. Don't overmix.
4. Set aside for 8-10 minutes, and then add melted butter to the batter. You can add water if the batter feels too thick. It is recommended that batter should be thick and yet should flow.
5. Heat a large skillet over medium heat and brush lightly with butter. Pour 1/4 cup of batter and spread gently into a circle.
6. Cook until the edges are dry and bubbles form on the surface. Flip over and cook the other side until golden brown.
7. Serve warm with your choice of fruits, ice cream and honey/maple syrup.

[Source](https://bestiesnotepad.com/2018/01/24/eggless-whole-wheat-pancakes/)
