---
layout: post
title: "Pad Thai"
date: 2020-11-25 12:00:00 -0500
image: 2020-11-25-pad-thai.jpg
tags:
categories: main-course
prep-time: 20 minutes
cook-time: 10 minutes
total-time: 30-40 minutes
---

Indulge in the delightful flavors of our Vegetarian Pad Thai, a classic Thai noodle dish that brings together a harmonious blend of sweet, sour, and savory tastes. Begin by stir-frying tofu, and if desired, add an array of colorful vegetables such as bell peppers, bean sprouts, and green onions in a wok with garlic and shallots. Incorporate flat rice noodles that have been softened in warm water. For the signature Pad Thai sauce, combine tamarind paste, soy sauce, and a touch of palm sugar, adjusting the ratios to your taste preference. Toss everything together until well-coated and garnish with crushed peanuts, lime wedges, and fresh cilantro. This Vegetarian Pad Thai offers a burst of flavors and textures, making it a delightful and satisfying option for a quick and flavorful meal.

#### Serves 4 people

#### Ingredients for Sauce

|          Ingredients          |           Quantity          |
|:-----------------------------:|:---------------------------:|
|  Tamarind paste / concentrate |         1.5 teaspoon        |
|           Soy Sauce           |    1/6 cup (As per taste)   |
|             Sugar             |         2 tablespoon        |
| Chili Garlic Sauce / Sriracha | 1.5 teaspoon (As per taste) |
|           Lime Juice          |        1.5 tablespoon       |

#### Ingredients for Stir Fry

|            Ingredients            |   Quantity   |
|:---------------------------------:|:------------:|
|       Olive Oil (or any oil)      | 1 tablespoon |
|       Extra firm tofu, cubed      |     1 cup    |
|           Garlic, minced          |   2 cloves   |
|      Bean Sprouts (optional)      |     1 cup    |
|       Green onions, chopped       |     1 cup    |
| Roasted, salted peanuts (chopped) |    1/3 cup   |

#### Ingredients for Noodles

|      Ingredients      | Quantity |
|:---------------------:|:--------:|
| Pad Thai Rice Noodles | 8 ounces |

#### Ingredients for Serving

* Lime wedges
* Bean sprouts
* Peanut sauce
* Shredded carrot
* Cilantro
* Sriracha or Chili Garlic Sauce

## Directions

1. To a small saucepan, add tamarind, soy sauce, sugar, chili garlic sauce, and lime juice, and heat over medium heat until just simmering. Cook for 30 seconds, stirring occasionally, then turn off heat. Set aside.
2. Ensure all stir fry ingredients are prepped, including cubed (briefly pressed) tofu, chopped green onions, minced garlic, bean sprouts, and chopped peanuts. If serving with peanut sauce (optional), prepare at this time.
3. Add Pad Thai noodles to a large bowl and cover with just boiling water. Stir and cover and cook according to package instructions (usually about 5-6 minutes or until al dente).
4. Drain noodles and toss with a little oil to prevent sticking. Set aside.
5. Heat a large-rimmed skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add oil and tofu and sauté for about 4 minutes, turning occasionally so it browns on all sides. Add garlic, and soy sauce. Toss gently to combine until garlic is just slightly browned. 
6. Add noodles, Pad Thai sauce, bean sprouts, green onions, and peanuts and cook over medium-high heat, tossing occasionally (tongs are most useful) for about 2-3 minutes or until the sauce has coated everything and the dish is hot.
7. To serve, plate with additional garnishes such as lime wedges, bean sprouts, peanut sauce, shredded carrot, cilantro, and sriracha or chili garlic sauce (all optional).
8. Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator for approximately 3-4 days.

#### Notes

* [Reference](https://minimalistbaker.com/easy-tofu-pad-thai/)