---
layout: post
title: "Lapsi"
date: 2020-05-18 22:28:18 -0500
image: 2020-05-18-lapsi.jpg
tags: dessert
categories: dessert
prep-time: 5 minutes
cook-time: 30 minutes
total-time: 35 minutes
---

Lapsi is a sweet dish made of broken wheat pieces, ghee, nuts, raisins and dried fruits.

#### Serves 4

#### Ingredients

|   Ingredients   |    Quantity   |
|:---------------:|:-------------:|
|  Butter / Ghee  | 2 tablespoons |
|   Broken wheat  |    0.5 cup    |
|   Water (hot)   |  1.5 - 2 cups |
| Jaggery / sugar |    1/3 cup    |

## Directions

#### In Instant Pot:
1. Heat the instant pot in saute mode. Add ghee and let it melt. Then add daliya to the pot.
2. Brown the dalia on sauté mode for about 3-4 minutes until you get the brown color and it smells fragrant. Keep stirring continuously so the dalia does not burn.
3. Add sliced almonds and sauté for 30 seconds with dalia.
4. Add water, jaggery, cardamom, saffron and stir well. Press Cancel and close lid with vent in sealing position.
5. Set to pressure cook on high pressure for 10 minutes. When the instant pot beeps, do a 10 minute natural pressure release. If any liquid is there, then saute for 2-3 mins.
6. Garnish with sliced pistachios and serve.

#### In a stovetop pressure cooker:
1. Follow the same steps in a stovetop pressure cooker on medium flame. Adjust water to 2 cups. Then turn to high flame and pressure cook for 3 whistles, followed by a natural pressure release.

#### In a pan:
1. Heat a heavy bottom pan on medium heat and add ghee to it.
2. Once the ghee is hot, add dalia and stir the mixture until you get the brown color and it smells fragrant. Keep stirring continuously so the dalia does not burn.
3. Add sliced almonds and sauté for 30 seconds with the dalia. Reduce to low heat.
4. Add saffron and 2 cups of water to the pan and let the broken wheat cook until it gets tender and the water is almost evaporated. The ghee will separate along the sides of the pan.
5. Add the jaggery, cardamom powder and mix well with the dalia. Saute for 2-3 minutes. Turn off flame.
6. Garnish with sliced pistachios and serve hot.

### Notes:

* You can add pistachios, almonds, saffron, cardamom or raisins for added taste!
* [Reference](https://pipingpotcurry.com/lapsi-cracked-wheat-sweet-recipe/)
