---
layout: post
title: "Lasagna"
date: 2020-06-08 12:00:00 -0500
image: 2020-06-08-lasagna.jpg
tags:
categories: main-course
prep-time: 15 minutes
cook-time: 45 minutes
total-time: 1 hour 30 minutes
---

Indulge in the wholesome goodness of Vegetable Lasagna, a comforting and flavorful twist on the classic Italian dish. Begin by layering lasagna noodles with a rich and hearty marinara sauce made from tomatoes, garlic, onions, and herbs. Between the layers, add a colorful medley of sautéed vegetables such as spinach, zucchini, bell peppers, and mushrooms. Enhance the layers with a velvety combination of ricotta and mozzarella cheese, creating a creamy texture. Repeat the layers and top with an extra layer of cheese for a golden and bubbly finish. Bake until the noodles are tender and the cheese is melted, presenting a satisfying and nutritious Vegetable Lasagna that celebrates the abundance of fresh and flavorful vegetables.

#### Makes 1 Lasagna tray for 8 servings

#### Ingredients

|            Ingredients           |        Quantity        |
|:--------------------------------:|:----------------------:|
|          Lasagna Noodles         |       1 16oz box       |
|              Ricotta             |        2 pounds        |
|         Mozzarella Cheese        | 16 - 24 oz (As needed) |
|          Marinara Sauce          |   As required (1 jar)  |
| Frozen spinach (thawed, drained) |         1 pound        |
|               Salt               |       As required      |
|              Basil               |       As required      |

## Directions

1. Bring a large pot of boiling water to a boil and cook lasagna noodles until al dente. Drain.
2. In a large bowl stir together ricotta, drained & thawed spinach and salt.
3. In a large baking tray, layer lasagna noodles (2 thick and 3 wide) and spoon over marinara sauce. Top with layer of spinach & ricotta mixture and then do a layer of mozzarella cheese. Repeat this until ending with mozzarella.
4. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
5. Cover with foil and bake for 45 minutes.
6. Garnish with basil, slice and serve.
