---
layout: post
title: "Rasgoola"
date: 2020-05-18 22:16:18 -0500
image: 2020-05-18-rasgoola.jpg
tags: dessert
categories: dessert
prep-time:
cook-time:
total-time:
---

Rasgoola is a syrupy dessert that is made from ball-shaped dumplings of cheese formed from milk and sugar.

#### Makes 12

#### Ingredients

| Ingredients | Quantity |
|:-----------:|:--------:|
|     Milk    |  4 cups  |
|   Vinegar   | 0.25 cup |
|    Sugar    |   1 cup  |
|    Water    |  4 cups  |

## Directions

1.	Mix vinegar in half cup of hot water and keep aside. Boil the milk in a heavy bottomed pan over medium heat, stirring occasionally, making sure not to burn milk. As the milk comes to a boil, add the vinegar gradually and stir the milk gently. Once the curd starts separating from the whey, turn off the heat.
2.	Once the milk fat has separated from the whey, drain the whey using a strainer line with cheesecloth. Then wrap the curd in a cheesecloth, and rinse under cold water, and squeeze well. To take out the excess water squeeze the cloth, or press the wrapped paneer under a heavy pan for about one hour.
3.	To check if enough water is out of the paneer, take a little piece of paneer on your palm and rub with your fingers. After rubbing the paneer for about 15-20 seconds, you should be able to make a firm but smooth ball.
4.	Once the paneer is drained, place on a dry, clean surface and knead the paneer for 3-4 minutes until the paneer is almost rolled into smooth soft dough.
5.	Knead the paneer by dragging the palm of your hand hard on the paneer. Keep scooping it back to together and knead more. If the paneer is too crumbly, add a teaspoon of water.
6.	Divide the dough into 12 equal parts and roll them into smooth balls. To make the balls apply some pressure at the first and then release when forming the balls. Then mix the sugar and water in a pressure cooker on medium high heat and bring to a boil. Add the paneer balls and close the pressure cooker. After the pressure cooker starts steaming, turn the heat to medium and cook for about seven minutes.
7.	Make sure the pressure cooker is large enough to accommodate the finished Rasgoolas, as they will expand to about double in the volume while cooking in the syrup.
8.	Close the heat and wait a few minutes before you opening the pressure cooker. Pour cold water over the pressure cooker before opening. Rasgoolas should be little spongy. Enjoy!
