---
layout: post
title: "Dhokla"
date: 2020-07-12 10:00:00 -0500
image: 2020-07-12-dhokla.jpg
tags: [breakfast, appetizers, snacks]
categories: [breakfast, side-dish, snacks]
prep-time: 10 minutes
cook-time: 10 minutes
total-time: 20 minutes
---

Savor the light and spongy goodness of Dhokla, a popular and steamed Indian snack that hails from the western state of Gujarat. To prepare the batter, combine gram flour (besan) with yogurt, and add a pinch of turmeric, ginger-green chili paste, and a touch of baking soda. Mix until you achieve a smooth consistency. Allow the batter to ferment for a few hours, then pour it into a greased plate or tray. Steam until the dhokla is cooked through and a toothpick comes out clean. For the tempering, heat mustard seeds, curry leaves, and green chilies in oil until they sizzle, and pour this over the dhokla. Garnish with chopped cilantro and grated coconut. Slice into squares or diamonds and serve this delightful and tangy Dhokla with green chutney for a light and flavorful snack or breakfast option.

#### Makes 1 small tray

#### Ingredients

|    Ingredients   |    Quantity   |
|:----------------:|:-------------:|
| Seminola (Sooji) |     1 cup     |
|       Salt       |  0.5 teaspoon |
|      Yogurt      |    0.25 cup   |
|       Water      |    0.75 cup   |
|     Eno soda     |  0.5 teaspoon |
|    Green chili   |    Optional   |
|   Sesame seeds   |    Optional   |
| Coriander leaves |    Optional   |

## Directions

1. Mix sooji, salt, yogurt and 0.5 cup water and keep mixture aside.
2. Put water in pressure cooker (without whistle) and put an oiled circular pan in the cooker. Once the pan is hot remove it.
3. Now add eno to mixture and add 0.25 cup water while mixing thoroughly. Don't over mix.
4. Add the mixture to the hot pan and put the pan in the pressure cooker.
5. Close the cooker and let it cook on high flame for 10 minutes.
6. Remove the pan and let it cool.
7. In a small pan add oil. When oil is hot add mustard seeds, sesame seeds and optional green chili.
8. Decorate with the chopped coriander leaves.
