---
layout: post
title: "Roti"
date: 2020-05-18 22:07:18 -0500
image: 2020-05-18-roti.jpg
tags: bread
categories: [bread, main-course]
prep-time:
cook-time:
total-time:
---

Roti, a fundamental element of Indian cuisine, is a flatbread made from whole wheat flour, water, and a pinch of salt. This versatile and staple bread is an essential part of everyday meals in many Indian households. To prepare roti, the whole wheat flour is kneaded into a soft and pliable dough, portions of which are rolled into flat circles and cooked on a hot griddle or tawa. The roti puffs up as it cooks, resulting in a soft, slightly chewy texture. It serves as a perfect accompaniment to various Indian dishes, from curries to lentils, providing a wholesome and nutritious base for savoring a variety of flavors. The simplicity and versatility of roti make it a cherished and integral part of Indian culinary traditions.

#### Serves 4 people

#### Ingredients

|           Ingredients           |    Quantity    |
|:-------------------------------:|:--------------:|
|        Whole wheat flour        |     0.5 cup    |
|               Salt              | 0.125 teaspoon |
|              Water              |    0.25 cup    |
|          Ghee (Butter)          |   2 teaspoons  |
| Whole wheat flour (for rolling) |    0.25 cup    |

## Directions

1. Mix flour, salt and water together to make dough.
2. Knead the dough on a slightly greased surface.
3. Set the dough aside and cover it with a damp cloth. Let the dough rest for ten minutes.
4. Divide the dough into equal parts.
5. Make smooth ball and press flat. Take a ball and press it in dry flour on both sides.
6. Roll into a circle.
7. Heat the tava on medium to high heat.
8. Place the roti onto tava.
9. After roti starts puffing in different places flip the roti over.
10. Flip again after a few seconds. Take a flat spatula and press lightly on the puffed parts of the roti.
11. Flip the roti again.
12. Add ghee or butter and Enjoy!
