---
layout: post
title: "Naan"
date: 2020-07-06 19:59:18 -0500
image: 2020-07-06-Naan.jpg
tags: Roti
categories: [Roti, main-course]
prep-time: 2.5hrs
cook-time: 30min
total-time: 3hrs
---

Naan is cooked on a pan and served alongside sabzi, chole. (Hebbar's kitchen)

#### Serves 8 servings

#### Ingredients

|    Ingredients   |            Quantity            |
|:----------------:|:------------------------------:|
| All purpose flour|          2 cups                |
|   Baking Soda    |          1/4 teaspoon          |
|   Baking Powder  |          1 teaspoon            |
|   salt           |          3/4 teaspoon          |
|   oil            |          2 tablespoon          |
|   Yogurt         |          1/4 cup               |
|   Garlic grated  |          1 teaspoon            |
|water for kneading|          as required           |

## Directions

1.	firstly, in a large mixing bowl take 2 cup maida, ¼ tsp baking soda and 1 tsp baking powder and ¾ tsp salt. mix well.
2.  add 2 tbsp oil, ¼ cup curd and 1 tsp garlic.
3.  mix well making sure everything is well combined.
4.  further, add water as required and knead to a smooth and soft dough.
5.  grease the dough with oil, cover and rest for 2 hours.
6.  meanwhile prepare garlic butter by mixing 3 tbsp butter, 1 tsp garlic and 2 tbsp coriander.
7.  after 2 hours, knead the dough slightly. to remove if any air present in the dough. pinch a ball sized dough.
8.  gently roll to oval shape using a rolling pin. make sure you do not make too thin nor thick. and also keep the size in mind. it should not be larger than your tawa size.
9.  grease with water over naan. make sure you coat uniformly. this helps naan to stick on tawa.
10. furthermore, slowly flip over and put it on hot tawa. remember, be gentle and put the water coated side down to tawa. also do not use nonstick tawa.
11. slightly press. this helps the naan to stick on to the tawa and when you flip the tawa upside down it will be intact.
12. now after a minute, flip the tawa upside down and cook naan directly on flame till they turn golden brown.
13. also brush with some prepared garlic butter mixed with coriander leaves.
14. gently scrape the naan from the bottom and remove.
15. finally, serve garlic naan hot with your favourite curry like mattar paneer.
