---
layout: post
title: "Upma"
date: 2020-05-31 10:19:00 -0500
image: 2020-05-31-upma.jpg
tags: breakfast
categories: breakfast
prep-time: 15-20 minutes
cook-time: 20-25 minutes
total-time: 35-45 minutes
---

Upma is a traditional South Indian dish made from semolina (rava or sooji) and a medley of vegetables, offering a flavorful and comforting breakfast option. To prepare, start by roasting semolina in a pan until it turns golden and aromatic. In a separate pot, sauté mustard seeds, urad dal, chana dal, curry leaves, and chopped vegetables like onions, carrots, peas, and bell peppers. Add water, bring to a boil, and gradually stir in the roasted semolina to create a thick and smooth consistency. Season with salt, and optionally, garnish with chopped cilantro and a squeeze of lime. Upma is not only quick to make but also versatile, allowing you to customize it with your favorite vegetables and spices, making it a popular and nutritious breakfast choice in many Indian households.

#### Serves 4 people

#### Ingredients

|    Ingredients   |    Quantity    |
|:----------------:|:--------------:|
|      Peanuts     |  As per taste  |
|     Urad daal    |   1 teaspoon   |
|      Onions      | 1 medium sized |
|      Raisins     |  As per taste  |
|    Chana daal    |   1 teaspoon   |
|     Semolina     |      1 cup     |
|   Curry leaves   |      A few     |
| Coriander leaves |      A few     |
|   Mustard seeds  |   1 teaspoon   |
|       Salt       |   2 teaspoons  |
|       Water      |    3.5 cups    |
|    Green chili   |        1       |
|       Lemon      |  As per taste  |

## Directions

0. Wash the chana and urad daals and dry it on a paper towel. Slice the onions too.
1. In a pan, add oil and warm it.
2. Then put the mustard seeds and let them crack.
3. Then add the onions.
4. Add the chana and urad daals and the curry leaves and green chili (split into 2 pieces).
5. Stir till the daal turns red-ish.
6. Add peanuts and raisins. Add water. Cover the pan.
7. Let it cook till chana daal has become soft.
8. Now add Semolina slowly into the pot while stirring continuously. Make sure there are no solids.
9. Once mixed, close the gas and cover the pan with a lid.
10. After 5 minutes, add coriander leaves and serve with fresh lemon.
