---
layout: post
title: "Rava Idli"
date: 2021-05-12 10:00:00 -0500
image: 2022-01-16-rava-idli.jpg
tags: [appetizers]
categories: [main-course]
prep-time: 30 minutes
cook-time: 14 minutes
total-time: 45 minutes
---

Experience the light and fluffy delight of our Rava Idli recipe, a quick and scrumptious twist to the traditional South Indian idli. Made from semolina (rava) and tempered with mustard seeds, urad dal, and curry leaves, these idlis boast a unique texture and a burst of savory flavors. The batter, a combination of rava, yogurt, and a hint of baking soda, requires no fermentation, making it an ideal option for those seeking a speedy and delicious breakfast or snack. Whether steamed in the classic idli molds or customized with a variety of colorful vegetables, our Rava Idlis are a versatile and delightful addition to your culinary repertoire. Serve them with coconut chutney and tangy sambar for an authentic South Indian experience that will surely satisfy your taste buds. Enjoy the simplicity and taste of these instantly gratifying idlis that bring a touch of South Indian tradition to your table.

#### Makes 12-14 idlis

#### Ingredients

|    Ingredients   |    Quantity   |
|:----------------:|:-------------:|
| Seminola (Sooji) |     1 cup     |
|       Salt       |   1 teaspoon  |
|      Yogurt      |    0.50 cup   |
|       Water      |   As needed   |
|     Eno soda     | 0.75 teaspoon |

## Directions

1. Mix sooji, salt, yogurt and water and keep mixture aside for 30 minutes.
2. Put water in pressure cooker (without whistle) and let it come to boil.
3. Now add eno to mixture and add water while mixing thoroughly. Don't over mix.
4. Add the mixture to the idli pans and put the pans in the pressure cooker.
5. Close the cooker and let it cook on high flame for 14 minutes.
6. Remove the pan and let it cool. Then remove the idlis from the pan and enjoy.
